---
layout: brew
date: 2018-04-08
title: A Tail Of Two Meads (Part 1)

type: mead
start:
  temp: 72.1
  sg: 1.091
  est_abv: 12
---

At the same time as I was finishing the first fermentation on my second batch of wine, I started an experiment in mead brewing. Brewing mead is surprisingly simple and all you need is water, honey, and yeast. I used exactly the steps used on The [Modern Rouge](https://youtu.be/2YwAvLru2ec) when they made mead. The great part about the simple process that they showed is that you don't need any special equipment, buckets, or special cleaning. All you need is a jug of water, enough honey, and yeast. 

I decided to make two gallons of mead, and try two types of honey.

For this first mead I used:
 * 1 Gallon of "refreshe" water (on sale at the grocery store)
 * 2.5 lbs of "SueBee" Honey (Clover Honey, Product of the U.S.A.)
 * 1/2 packet of red wine yeast

To figure out how much honey I needed I used this [mead calculator](http://gotmead.com/blog/the-mead-calculator/) to figure out how much honey I needed to get an ABV of about 12%. That came out to about 2.5 lbs, which was convenient since I could buy 2.5 lbs bottles of honey at the grocery store. In order to mix the honey into the water, I did need to pore about half the water into other containers (pitchers and water bottles) to make room. 

I did a taste test before poring in the honey and it tasted, well, sweet. It tasted a lot like the honey you would have gotten at McDonald's to dip fries and nuggets in as a kid. 

Mixing the honey and water together is a workout, since you need to vigorously shake over 8 lbs of liquid. After that was done I added back some of the water that was set aside, while leaving some room for the yeast. I did another taste test of the now sweeten water, and it was very sweet. I think it was sweeter than a lot of sugary sodas. So sweet that my mouth and thought felt dry after and I needed a drink of water to wash it down.

After adding the yeast, I added the perforated balloon air lock and stuck it in a cabinet to rediscover on a later date.
